# management sim - the description layer
Description of an XSD for creating a Management Simulation XML Schema

Developed as part of a chapter called "Creating effective management simulations: rapidly, responsibly, relevantly!"

The XSD is a starting place to create a structured and consistent format for business simulations that can created by academics, businesses, and students and then consumed within a management simulation engine capable of reading the XSD and returing a usable interface that enables the simulations to be tested, played, used in the classroom and evolved to reflect changing circumstances.

The proposed tags so far with their attributes and a rationale relating to their purpose 

- `<simulation>` is the overall wrapper. All the aspects of the simulation would be defined within the tag and the resultant closing tag `</simulation>`
-  `<title>` provides the text contained by this and `</title>` to offer a human readable title of the simulation
-  `<sector>`. The text contained by this and `</sector>` suggests the primary sector that the simulation would be most relevant for. This is primary human readily and does not impact on the functioning of the simulation
- `<scenario>` is Another human readable text that provides a longer description of the simulation intended for helping people to chose a simulation rather than defining its functionality 
- `<author>`  A human readable version of the author's name contained between the `</author>` tag. Potential attributes include `id="value"` where `value` may be an institutional id. The attribute `orcid="value" where `value` would be the author's ORCid provides opportunity for the author to link to a wider more recognisable system of researcher identification. More than one author could be defined in a single simulation
- `<revision>` Defines the current version of the simulation.  The text before `</revision>` may optionally offer some form of human readable description relating to version. The attribute `version="value"` would be expected to be a systematic machine readable version. Attribute `date="value"` would be an amibiguous date stamp either YYYY/MM/DD format or standard Unix timestamp.
- `<level>` provides a human readable indicator of the intended audience for the simualtion. This may be a value such as `5` indicate UK study level or more generic phrasing such as `undergraduate`. The level does not affect functionality.
- `<documentation>` is a description label held as text before `</documentation>` with an attribute `uri="value"` to indicate the location of more detailed documentation related to the simulation. The `value` is expected to be a URL or DOI and may point to an original source paper or other forms of output.
- `<participants />` has one attribute `value="count"` where `count` would be a numeric value indicating the maximum number of players for the simulation. This value *may* be enforced by the simulation.
- `<time />`  defines the imagined time period between each decision period. One attribute of `period="value" where value might be `Daily|Weekly|Monthly|Quarterly|Annual`. This may not directly impact on the simulation but it *may* have bearing because of external influences or what happens in different turns.
- `<dimensions />` defines the dimenions of the simulation through a series of binary True|False attributes. Attribute `competitive="value"` where `value` would be expected to be True|False. True implies that the players are score or ranked against one another. Attribute `interactive="value"` where `value` would be expected to be True|False. True implues that the simultion is played in a sequence with play pausing until other participants make a decision in each round. Attribute `deterministic="value"` where `value` would be expected to be True|False. Attribute `tiered="value"` where `value` would be expected to be True|False.
- `<teams />` defines how the teams are defined within the simulation. The Attribute `value="number"` where `number` would be expected to be True|False. True implies that the game is played in teams and not individually. Provision to make this allocation needs to be done by the system. Attribute `allocation="value"` where `value` would be `random` or `determined`. The random allocation would rely on the system to make an automated allocation from a pool which determined would accept some form of additional input to define who belonged to which team. Attribute `minsize="value"` where `value` would be a positive whole number greater than 0. Attribute `maxsize="value"` where `value` would be a positive whole number greater than minsize. With these two attributes the system would be able to randomly allocate teams greater than minsize and up to and including maxsize.
- `<rounds count="" strict="True|False" />` defines how many rounds would be played in the simulation. (This may be redundant as the aspect of a defined next `<step>` would indicate the end of the simulation automatically). Attribute `count="value"` where `value` defines how many rounds there are in the simulation. The attribute `strict="value">` with potential values of either True or False. Presumably setting this `False` would enable the simulation to continue until some other form of end condiction was met.
- `<ending type="victory|rounds">` and `</ending>` defines the way the simulation ends. The attribute `type="value"` would have two potential values either `victory` or `rounds` where rounds indicates a conclusion when the count of rounds matches this value. The `<ending>...</ending>` set can contain multiple `<condition />` tags.
- `<condition />` sets out a condition for success. The attribute `type="value"`sets out the condition type where `value` may be debt-ratios | social-value | market-share | profitability | return-on-assets | return-on-equity | share-price |total-assets. An attribute `formula="id"` identifies a pre-defined formula through its `id` and that can be used to comparatively test the values of each player or team. The attribute `type="value"` determines whether all of one conditions have to be met. `Value` would be and | or where `and` indicates all conditions need to be met. The attribute `value="amount"` indicates what `amount` needs to be exceeed in the calculation for this condition to be successfully met.
 - `<aicompetitor />` defines the way an ai-based competitor should interact with the human competitors. The attribute `brain="value"` indicates the form of relationshop with expected `value` being random|competitive|median|follow. The `competitive` values implies that the AI would be trying to win while `median` suggests the ai takes the median response of all teams (which is a programmatically simple solution) or `follow` which uses the input of the first team from the previous round.
-  `<noise />` defines the extent to which 'unknown' forces may play an influence on each turn and decision outcome. The attribute `value="amount"` defined the amount of noise in the decision with `amount` being a value between 0 and 100 representing the amount of variation that is possible from the calculated outcome. As `amount` reaches higher values the result would be to override the impact of the decision itself and effectively make the outcome a random value. The attributes `start="value"` and `end="value"` indicates which turns in the simulation that the noise would be applied. This makes it possible to apply different amounts of noise at different points in the simulation.
-  `<influences>` and `<\influences>` contain `<influence />` tags.
-  `<steps>` and `<\steps>` contain `<step>` and `</step>` tags. Each `<step />` represents one round of turns within the simulation. A `<step />` would have `id="value"` and `order="values"` attributes. The `id` provides a unique identifier which may also echo the sequence of steps but the `order` attribute could contain a single value e.g. `1` to indicate the point in the simulation that it is played. The value could be multiple e.g. `1,3,4` to indicate that the step is used on multiple turns of the simulation. The value of `id` could also indicate a sequence of turns e.g. `4-7` to show that the same sequence repeats over a number of turns. The `id` attribute could also have a mix of these forms e.g. `1,3,5-7,10`. The advantage is to reduce the number of definitions required and for a simple simulation may only require a single `<step>` to be defined.
-   The `<step>` and `</step>` tags contains `<decision />`tag. These are the sequence of decisions that will be made at this step (and everytime it occurs). A simple simulation may have a single decision but there is no limit on the number of decisions that can be completed in a single `<step>`. A `<decision />` tag generally implies the need for some form of user input in order to trigger the decision but it does not imply how that input is received (while a simple HTML form element may be the most straightforward solution other types of input including XR type triggers may also be the gateway for a `<decision />`. There are a number of proposed attributes. `id="value"` helps to identify the individual decisions. `formula="id"` references the id of the specific `<formula />` being used for the decision.  An `output="id"` defines a `<variable />` that the outcome of the calculation will be stores (for future use in a later turn). An optional `method="value"` attribute enables different ways for a decison to be research. The option include `fixed|random|prepared|calculated` with `calculated` being the default and implying that the result is calculated from user input. The additional optional  attribute `value="id,amount"` enables `fixed` calculations to be done without using entirely user input where `id` equates to the `variable` id within the `formula` being used. Multiple elements of a formula can be applied e.g. `value="id,amount|id2,amount2"`. Any missing predefined `variable` values would imply the need for user input.
-  `<variables>` and `<\variables>` contain `<variable />` tags. The `<variable />` defines the name and potentially the value of a variable for use within a `<formula />`. The key attribute is `id="_value"` with the underscore being used to denote a `variable` within the simulation. There may also be a `value="amount"` attribute which indicates a pre-populated default value that can then be overwritten as a result of user input made during a `<decision />`. This differs slightly from the `calculated` value within a `<decision />` as the absence of an `amount` within the `value="id,amount"` attribute of `<decision />` necessitates user input the `value` defined here may be used to protect against division by zero or other unexpected results. Attributes of `maximum="value"` and `minimum="value"` can also be set to ensure that user input does not fall outside acceptable ranges.
-  `<formulas>` and `<\formulas>` contain `<forumla />` tags.
